Amity University 2008 B.E Computer Science JAVA (Data types,variables and Arrays) - Question Paper
Tuesday, 15 January 2013 08:30Web
Page 1 of 3

Data types,variables and Arrays
1) What is meant by variable?
Ans: Variables are locations in memory that can hold values. Before assigning any value to a variable, it must be declared.
2) elaborate the types of variables in Java? elaborate their uses?
Ans: Java has 3 types of variables namely, the instance variable, the local variable and the class variable.
Local variables are used inside blocks as counters or in methods as temporary variables and are used to store info needed by a single method.
Instance variables are used to describe attributes or the state of a particular object and are used to store info needed by multiple methods in the objects.
Class variables are global to a class and to all the instances of the class and are useful for communicating ranging from various objects of all the identical class or keeping track of global states.
3) How are the variables declared?
Ans: Variables can be declared anywhere in the method definition and can be initialized during their declaration.They are commonly declared before usage at the beginning of the definition.
Variables with the identical data kind can be declared together. Local variables must be provided a value before usage.
4) elaborate variable types?
Ans: Variable kinds can be any data kind that java supports, which includes the 8 primitive data types, the name of a class or interface and an array.
5) How do you assign values to variables?
Ans: Values are assigned to variables using the assignment operator =.
6) What is a literal? How many kinds of literals are there?
Ans: A literal represents a value of a certain kind where the kind defines how that value behaves.
There are various kinds of literals namely number literals, character literals,
boolean literals, string literals,etc.
7) What is an array?
Ans: An array is an object that stores a list of items.
8) How do you declare an array?
Ans: Array variable shows the kind of object that the array holds.
Ex: int arr[];
9) Java supports multidimensional arrays.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
10) An array of arrays can be created.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
11) What is a string?
Ans: A combination of characters is called as string.
12) Strings are instances of the class String.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
13) When a string literal is used in the program, Java automatically creates instances of the string class.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
14) Which operator is to create and concatenate string?
Ans: Addition operator(+).
15) Which of the subsequent declare an array of string objects?
a. String[ ] s;
b. String [ ]s:
c. String[ s]:
d. String s[ ]:
Ans : a, b and d
16) What is the value of a[3] as the outcome of the subsequent array declaration?
a. 1
b. 2
c. 3
d. 4
Ans : d
17) Which of the subsequent are primitive types?
a. byte
b. String
c. integer
d. Float
Ans : a.
18) What is the range of the char type?
a. 0 to 216
b. 0 to 215
c. 0 to 216-1
d. 0 to 215-1
Ans. d
19) elaborate primitive data types?
Ans : byte, short, int, long
float, double
boolean
char
20) elaborate default values of various primitive types?
Ans : int - 0
short - 0
byte - 0
long - 0 l
float - 0.0 f
double - 0.0 d
boolean - false
char - null
21) Converting of primitive kinds to objects can be explicitly.
a)True
b)False
Ans: b.
22) How do we change the values of the elements of the array?
Ans : The array subscript expression can be used to change the values of the elements of the array.
23) What is final varaible?
Ans : If a variable is declared as final variable, then you can not change its value. It becomes constant.
24) What is static variable?
Ans : Static variables are shared by all instances of a class.


Operators available in Java
1) elaborate operators and elaborate the different kinds of operators available in Java?
Ans: Operators are special symbols used in expressions.
The subsequent are the kinds of operators:
Arithmetic operators,
Assignment operators,
Increment & Decrement operators,
Logical operators,
Biwise operators,
Comparison/Relational operators and
Conditional operators
2) The ++ operator is used for incrementing and the -- operator is used for
decrementing.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
3) Comparison/Logical operators are used for testing and magnitude.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
4) Character literals are stored as unicode characters.
a)True
b)False
Ans: a.
5) elaborate the Logical operators?
Ans: OR(|), AND(&), XOR(^) AND NOT(~).
6) What is the % operator?
Ans : % operator is the modulo operator or reminder operator. It returns the reminder of dividing the 1st operand by 2nd operand.
7) What is the value of 111 % 13?
a. 3
b. 5
c. 7
d. 9
Ans : c.
8) Is &&= a valid operator?
Ans : No.
9) Can a double value be cast to a byte?
Ans : Yes
10) Can a byte object be cast to a double value ?
Ans : No. An object cannot be cast to a primitive value.
11) elaborate order of precedence and associativity?
Ans : Order of precedence the order in which operators are evaluated in expressions.
Associativity determines whether an expression is evaluated left-right or right-left.
12) Which Java operator is right associativity?
Ans : = operator.
13) What is the difference ranging from prefix and postfix of -- and ++ operators?
Ans : The prefix form returns the increment or decrement operation and returns the value of the increment or decrement operation.
The postfix form returns the current value of all of the expression and then
performs the increment or decrement operation on that value.
14) What is the outcome of expression 5.45 + "3,2"?
a. The double value 8.6
b. The string ""8.6"
c. The long value 8.
d. The String "5.453.2"
Ans : d
15) elaborate the values of x and y ?
x = 5; y = ++x;
Ans : x = 6; y = six
16) elaborate the values of x and z?
x = 5; z = x++;
Ans : x = 6; z = five


Introduction to Java Programming
1) The Java interpreter is used for the execution of the source code.
a) actual
b) False
Ans: a.
2) On successful compilation a file with the class extension is created.
a) actual
b) False
Ans: a.
3) The Java source code can be created in a Notepad editor.
a) actual
b) False
Ans: a.
4) The Java Program is enclosed in a class definition.
a) actual
b) False
Ans: a.
5) What declarations are needed for every Java application?
Ans: A class and the main( ) method declarations.
6) elaborate the 2 parts in executing a Java program and their purposes?
Ans: 2 parts in executing a Java program are:
Java Compiler and Java Interpreter.
The Java Compiler is used for compilation and the Java Interpreter is used for execution of the application.
7) elaborate the 3 OOPs principles and describe them?
Ans : Encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism are the 3 OOPs
Principles.
Encapsulation:
Is the Mechanism that binds together code and the data it manipulates, and keeps both safe from outside interference and misuse.
Inheritance:
Is the process by which 1 object acquires the properties of a different object.
Polymorphism:
Is a feature that allows 1 interface to be used for a general class of actions.
8) What is a compilation unit?
Ans : Java source code file.
9) What output is displayed as the outcome of executing the subsequent statement?
System.out.println("// Looks like a comment.");
a. // Looks like a comment
b. The statement outcomes in a compilation fault
c. Looks like a comment
d. No output is displayed
Ans : a.
10) In order for a source code file, containing the public class Test, to successfully compile, which of the subsequent must be true?
a. It must have a package statement
b. It must be named Test.java
c. It must import java.lang
d. It must declare a public class named Test
Ans : b
11) elaborate identifiers and what is naming convention?
Ans : Identifiers are used for class names, method names and variable names. An identifier may be any descriptive sequence of upper case & lower case letters,numbers or underscore or dollar sign and must not start with numbers.
12) What is the return kind of program’s main( ) method?
Ans : void
13) What is the argument kind of program’s main( ) method?
Ans : string array.
14) Which characters are as 1st characters of an identifier?
Ans : A – Z, a – z, _ ,$
15) elaborate various comments?
Ans : 1) // -- single line comment
2) /* --
*/ multiple line comment
3) /** --
*/ documentation
16) What is the difference ranging from constructor method and method?
Ans : Constructor will be automatically invoked when an object is created. Whereas method has to be call explicitly.
17) What is the use of bin and lib in JDK?
Ans : Bin contains all tools such as javac, applet viewer, awt tool etc., whereas Lib
contains all packages and variables.
